---
title: 'Can Insects Hear Plants? A Study Says Yes'
about: |
    Plants don't scream, but new research from Tel Aviv University (TAU) from
    Israel found that insects could hear them. The study discovered that
    insects, specifically female moths, can hear sounds of plants and make
    decisions using it.
authors: [ vytdev ]
tags: [ editorial ]
published: '2025-08-11'
updated: '2025-10-16'
next_page: 'editorial/2025-08-18.md'
---

# Can Insects Hear Plants? A Study Says Yes

Plants don't scream, but new research from Tel Aviv University (TAU) from
Israel found that insects could hear them. The study discovered that insects,
specifically female moths, can hear sounds of plants and make decisions using
it.

Their research builds upon their previous study that plants make sound. Plants
experiencing drought frequently make a "pop" sound, inaudible to human ears.
Hydrated plants, however, barely make any sound. And their question was, "who
listens to this sound?"

They conducted an experiment with female moths because their larvae feed on
plants, and figured that mother moths select healthy plants for laying eggs.

The first experiment began with two boxes. One containing a speaker playing
recordings of a dehydrated tomato plant, while the other is completely silent.
Most moths were drawn to the "noisy box", suggesting they interpreted the sound
as a sign of a "living plant". But after impairing the moths' hearing, they
equally chose both boxes. This behaviour indicated that their preference was
solely based on what they hear, not on what they could see, feel, or smell.

The second experiment presented two actual healthy tomato plants. One that is
making sound of a drying plant, and another that is silent. The moths went to
the silent one, suggesting their preference for a healthier plant.

The researchers believe their study could be invaluable, especially in
agriculture, where it could lead to the invention of new ways of effective pest
control, alternative to chemicals.

The study was conducted in the laboratories of Prof. Yossi Yovel from the
School of Zoology and Prof. Lilach Hadany from the School of Plant Sciences and
Food Security at TAU’s Wise Faculty of Life Sciences. It was led by students
Dr. Rya Seltzer and Guy Zer Eshel, in collaboration with scientists from the
Plant Protection Institute at the Volcani Institute.

"In this study, we revealed the first evidence for acoustic interaction between
a plant and an insect. We are convinced, however, that this is just the
beginning. Acoustic interaction between plants and animals undoubtedly takes
many more forms and fulfills a wide range of ecological roles. This remains a
vast, largely unexplored field &mdash; an entire world awaiting discovery", the
researchers wrote.

These findings might be small, but in the bigger picture, they could help us
for the next step in understanding how plants and animals interact. It could
make way for innovations in different fields such as agriculture, pest control,
and much more!

References:

- https://www.manilatimes.net/2025/08/02/business/science-technology/university-discovers-insect-plant-chat/2160836
